In the last lectures we added this list we added flat list to have a really, well performing way of rendering
lists.
Now what else should we have a look at if we dive into the basics of react native?
In my opinion, it would be nice to also work with images,
after all we're talking about awesome places here,
right?
So let me show you how we can include an image in our list item
and I also want to change our list here a little bit and make sure that if we click on one of these
items, we actually open a modal in which we render both the name of the element and also the image.
For now I will hard code an image in there but we'll later in this course also use a way of getting an
image from the image gallery on the phone or from the camera.
Now for hard coding an image in here, I also want to show you two different approaches,
let's start with approach number one, an image we got on our machine,
for that let's first of all search one, I already found a nice one on google image search,
simply pick any image you like
and therefore I'll now download and store it.
I downloaded and stored the image here in this assets folder in my source folder.
Now my goal is to render it as part of my list item
and even though I will always use the same image for all my list items, I at least want to fake that
it is like a dynamically loaded image and that it belongs to each list item,
so I won't hardcode it into my jsx code but instead in my app container in the app.js file where we
add new items to our places array, I want to not just set a name for these places,
the name we enter in the text input,
I also want to store the image instead.
Now for including the image, there is actually a pretty neat way we can do this in react native, we
can essentially import it with an import statement or with a required statement,
so what we can do is we can import our place image from
and now we simply enter the path to the image,
so to the beautiful-place.jpg in my case. Here you need to add the file extension because jpg and so
on is not a file extension the build workflow will add automatically.
Once you've got it here, you can assign this as a value to the image property in our place object
and I also now want to change the value to name,
this seems more appropriate
now that we also got an image property. Now with value being changed to name, I need to make sure
that in my list item where I output this, excuse me, in a place list where I forward it,
I no longer access the value but instead name and I now also want to forward my place image.
So there, I will actually forward info item image and now image,
that's the cool thing,
when imported like this is not just like the path in a string or something like that, instead the build
workflow we're using here and therefore react native in the end will turn this import or whatever gets
stored in these element
here, in this constant so to say,
will set this to a javascript object where it essentially will dynamically generate a path to the
image which will also be correct
once this is deployed on the phone because you have to keep in mind that our nice folder structure here
won't be matched on the phone in the end, everything will be bundled and optimized.
So this single line does a lot of magic for us and will actually create a javascript object where we
will get the path as a property,
the path pointing to where this image will end up in the end,
so that's really neat.
So place image is like our magic object holding the path where we will be able to find the image on the
device when we run our app,
that's why we store place image,
it is an object, not just a path.
So this object is then passed on in place list, here we pass it on
and therefore in the list item, we can now use it.
I want to render my image next to the text here
and for that I first of all need to be able to create an image.
Thankfully react native has an image component
and as always you can check out the docs to learn more about it.
So I'll add my image here,
it's a self-closing element and image, unlike the web equivalent doesn't have a src attribute,
instead we bind source to set the source of this image and the source should be place image,
so the property we set here, place image with an E at the end therefore.
So that's a property which passes on the image we store in our place object and that is what we set
image to with the source.
Now with that we got image and text, to position them next to each other, we need to touch and work on
our list item styles. There
we should make sure that we actually set the flex direction to row because I want to position these
two elements next to each other in a row and the default would be column and I also want to set align
items to center to center them vertically because if the direction is row, the cross axis will be the
vertical axis, align items refers to the cross axis
so therefore center will center the items vertically.
I also want to give my image a certain style so I'll add my place image property here,
I simply want to give it a margin right of let's say 8 pixels and I can now assign this here, style
equals styles
place image. Make sure to save all files and then go back to your running application and reload your
app so that it reloads correctly.
If you now add this,
well I got an image here but it's taking up a little bit too much space.
Well that behavior actually happens because we didn't assign a width and a height to the image
and now here's an important thing,
if you're importing a local image as we do here with our import statement, react native will automatically
take the width and height of the image which is rather big in this case and use that as a width and
height in the place where it renders it, you can of course override this. If you would fetch the
image from the web,
so if you would construct this magic object manually, I will show you how this works in a second,
you always need to set width and height because there, react native
doesn't even have a way of calculating itself.
Here it does
but it ends up with dimensions we don't want,
well maybe we want them but here I don't.
So since I want to override this, I'll go to list item and on my place image style, I'll actually set a maximum
height of let's say 30.
If we now save this and we go back to the application,
you see the height is now 30 but we still have a lot of width,
so let's also maybe set the width to 30.
If we do that,
now this looks better.
It by the way automatically uses the cover mode you might know from web css image styling where it keeps
the aspect ratio you define,
so 30 pixels high and wide but then cuts off parts of the image so that it doesn't stretch the
image
unnecessary or something like that. You can override this and you can learn more about this if you dive
into the documentation, there
you can dive into images to learn more about images in general,
for example how you can also define different versions of an image to let react native automatically pick
the right one for the device you're running on,
so by device width but if you go down to components and go to image there, you can also learn if you
scroll down
that you can set the resize mode property, you can set it to cover which is the default as I just mentioned but
you can also set it to contain for example.
So let's try this out,
if I go to the image here and I set resize mode equal to contain and I save this,
now you see it doesn't take a height of 30 pixels even though we set this as a style because it contains
the original image overwriting our height
in this case,
so therefore our height and width only act as borders
so to say now. It will always keep the aspect ratio and whichever border it hits first will be the
border that decides, well which value, the other value
so height or width gets. So I'll switch this back to cover which was the default
anyways, I just wanted to highlight this.
So this is how you can include a static image, an image you have on your operating system or in your
project to be precise, you import it and react native sorts out the rest.
Now what about images you fetch from the web,
let's have a look at this in the next lecture.